# The Martyr’s War/The War
The Martyr’s war was a bloody and horrible war between the Northern Sector, or humans of the North and the Southern Sector, or the [[Ragna]] to the South. Originally, the world was divided by the river currently known as the Crimson River that split through the continent. After the war, however, the [[Ragna]] were pushed further south and separated from the rest of civilization by a giant steep gorge called the [[Great Salvation]].

Most of the names used in this entry are the names of the battles as coined by [[Taosis]]. [[Ragna]] have little reason to separate the eras of the war, since Taosis centered so much of the fight around the Martyrs. The [[Ragna]] simply refer to this war as “The War”, and haven’t done much to record the specifics of it due to their long lifetime. Most of the survivors of the war are still around today, so it is not considered ancient history like it is with the humans from Taosis.

## The Catalyst
The world before the [[Great Salvation]] was widely unmagical. [[Ragna]] and humans lived in relative harmony, though there was some racial tension regardless. One day while miners were exploring a new mine in the [[Holbeck Mountains]] in [[Solaris]], they discovered a cloudy gray rock that filled most of the mountain. These rocks were new and many researchers were interested in it, wanting to investigate it for its potential value in trade. After only a few years of researching it however, these rocks were discovered to have a unique connection to the world around them, allowing someone wielding the rocks to manipulate the elements around them, to a certain extent. These rocks were quickly harvested and mass produced into [[Amulets]].
The king of Sashan at the time, [[King Juliun]], decided to hoard this new discovery to himself and his people, and refused to open up trade negotiations with the [[Ragna]]. The High Chieftain at the time, [[High Chieftain Ii’lyn]], made multiple attempts to peacefully solve the conflict before eventually giving in and declaring war. 

## The Bloody River and the Fall of Eldwin
After the [[Ader]], had fallen during her original decade of ruthless tactical warfare, the [[Ragna]] gained an upperhand, closing the distance that Ader had won for them and returning to their original positions on the southern side of the Crimson River. Quickly morale within the Northern Sector fell. Legends state that the sheer amount of death that happened during the decade-long stand-off colored the river red, earning the era (and river) its name. It looked as if the war was going to end, and the [[Ragna]] would win. Just before all seemed lost, [[Eldwin]], sacrificed himself to fuse his essence into the river, cleansing it of its crimson color and infusing the Northern Sector with new strength and stamina. This revitalized the Northern soldiers and allowed them to push forward, gaining the advantage once more.

## The Battle of the Darkened Forest and the Fall of Ahren and Lycel
After [[Eldwin]] fell, [[Ahren]] and [[PROFILES/CHARACTERS/NPCS/DEITIES/MARTYRS/Lycel]] joined forces to help take advantage of their recently revitalized forces. With the combined intellect of the two Martyrs, they pushed the [[Ragna]] troops further south, past the current-day [[Everdark Forest]]. They fought within the Forest for months before [[Ahren]]] died with their final push with their monks. This gained [[PROFILES/CHARACTERS/NPCS/DEITIES/MARTYRS/Lycel]] time to cover the Forest in complete, thick darkness before he fell into madness. 

The [[Ragna]] were forced southward or lost in the woods, creating the perfect opportunity for [[Dahlia]] to make her final move to end the war.

## The Great Salvation and Fall of Dahlia
When the first four Martyrs had died on the battlefield, only [[Dahlia]] remained. After [[PROFILES/CHARACTERS/NPCS/DEITIES/MARTYRS/Lycel]]’s successful push, the [[Ragna]] were all grouped in the South or lost in the darkness of the Wood.

[[Dahlia]] took advantage of this. With every ounce of her strength, she created the [[Great Salvation]], managing to create a perfectly smooth, mile wide gash in the earth, multiple miles deep into the sea. She herself fell into the gorge after she created it, but the sudden separation of the two Sectors ended the war after nearly thirty years of fighting, and successfully contained the [[Ragna]] in their new valley named [[Ragnasilda]].

## The War’s Effects Today
During the present era, around 1300 S.Y (Saved Years), there are still many effects that the war has left on the people of Taosis, primarily in the southern parts of the country. Many people who reside in [[Mylanda]] specifically strongly dislike the [[Ragna]], and have crafted stories against the race. A large population of Taosis in general believe that the [[Ragna]] were provoked at the first mention of the [[Amulets]] before the [[King Juliun]] even had time to offer them to the [[Ragna]], and the war was fought in self defense. This, of course, is untrue, but many of the Mylandian people are stubborn. Some elves who live there even refuse to change their stories, and are seen as irrefutably responsible historians due to their age.

Prior to the War, modern-day Taosis was split into various kingdoms. After the war, the kingdoms united into one and put a new queen on the throne, [[Queen Brigid Sol I]].