# Lycel, the Wizard of Darkness
Lycel was an #elven #wizard who had tapped into the mysterious power of the dark and illusions. He had studied for years with his amulet and was arguably the most powerful of the five Martyrs in sheer arcane ability. 

He “fell” shortly after [[Ahren]], since their plan to push the [[Ragna]] back was in tandem. Once [[Ahren]] fell and left Lycel alone, he managed to gather all of his power and swathed the [[Everdark Forest]] in perpetual pitch darkness, so thick that even the [[Ragna]]’s Dark Vision could not pierce it. This caused the [[Ragna]] to flee back south, as the Northern Sector held the Northern border of the Forest and slaughtered anyone who attempted to escape. The Forest is still bathed in complete darkness to this day. After the fight, Lycel lost his mind, wandering into the woods to never be seen again. It is unknown if he is still alive, and is a topic of hot debate between intellectuals. Despite many attempts to search for him, the perpetual darkness placed on the woods makes it nearly impossible to traverse through.

Due to the uncertainty of Lycel’s current status, there are differing opinions between areas of high intellect whether or not he should be considered a Martyr. There are some schools of magic that look up to Lycel and pray to him for success on assessments and for a keen mind, despite his disappearance. Those who believe him to be alive regard his magical ability as superior and aim to reach his intellectual capabilities, though they do not worship him as a Martyr. Rogues and thieves also pray to him for cover in the dark of night, praising his descent into madness.

[[The Solaris Academy of the Arcane]] and [[Sashan]] in general believes that Lycel is a Martyr, and worships him as such. [[Loushlan]] also typically believes him to be dead, though there aren’t many intellectual establishments in the major cities there. Mylanda is the main country full of ghost stories and rumors of Lycel roaming the Forest, and the [[The Arcane Academy of Newsham]] believes him to be alive. Typically you should match the beliefs of your kingdom, though it’s up to you.

There has not been a “reincarnation” of Lycel, as many of the wizards who teach at [[The Solaris Academy of the Arcane]] believe his second coming would be obvious. Those who believe him to still be alive uses the lack of a second coming to be evidence that he never died in the first place, since he would have been reincarnated in the 300 years since the last second coming of [[Ahren]] in [[Simon Sanks]]. Those who think him to be dead say that since there hasn’t been a consistent span of time between reincarnations, it is completely possible he has yet to come.

Lycel, unbeknownst to the rest of the world, now lives in the [[Everdark Forest]], and helped found the settlement [[Grynms]] for stranded Ragna. As an intellectual, he had no actual qualms against the Ragna race, and was just fighting for his country. 